>> Jem Young: First exercise.
Yes, we're here already.
Let's do a ping command.
Ping is super useful for
just telling you, is my website up?
Because if DNS goes out,
you're thinking, man,
my websites down cuz my
DNS isn't resolving.
Jemyoung.com isn't resolving to a server,
that doesn't mean your server's down.
It could be that DNS is down.
So Ping is a good way of telling you,
is my server still up and
running, without actually logging into it.
So, in your command line, go ahead and
fire up, just type ping google.com,
anything you want.
Some of these exercises, I'll be joining
in, but some of these are pretty
straightforward, so I'm not gonna
exit it out and break the flow.
But, just go ahead and ping,
ping wherever you want.
Ping Netflix, Google, Frontend Masters.
All right?
You should get something like that.
Depending on where you are in the world,
the IP address is gonna
be a little different.
But, go and ping jemyoung.com and
see what happens.
>> Speaker 2: It's timeout.
>> Jem Young: Exactly yes because
I do not respond to pings.
I don't need to because why should I?
So [LAUGH] It's my server,
I could do what I want.
All right, so
it's important to note that yes,
you don't actually have
to respond to the ping.
It's just a different protocol,
a port that's opened on your server.
But it's a good way of telling
you if your server's up.
I don't use it because honestly
I don' t care if my server's up.
[LAUGH] It sounds so mean to say but
it goes down sometimes and
I don't even know it for days.
But ping is an extremely useful command
and this is just the basic, basic level.
If you wanna impress your friends,
just open this full screen and like ping,
and let it run in the background and
they'll think you're a cool hacker and
all sorts of things.
I used to do that in school,
just back in high school.
They'd be like what are you doing.
I'm like Internet stuff.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]